---
layout: post
title: That's what I see DEI
subtitle: "DEI: A Steady Pace Towards True Equity in Social Status, without Force or Excessive Sensitivity"
author: "Yuandi Tang"
header-img: "img/truedei.jpg"
header-mask: 0.4
tags:
  - blog
  - DEI
---
While striving for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI), it is crucial to maintain a balanced approach that does not involve forcing or coercing others into compliance, nor succumbing to excessive sensitivity. DEI should be seen as a journey towards achieving true equity in social status. Let's explore the importance of maintaining a steady pace on this path.

# Not About Force or Coercion:
DEI initiatives should never resort to force or coercion to bring about change. True equity and inclusion are best fostered through open dialogue, education, and creating spaces for understanding. Forcing individuals or groups to adhere to certain standards or perspectives can lead to resentment, resistance, and hinder the progress of DEI efforts. Instead, a respectful and inclusive approach that encourages active participation and critical thinking is essential for genuine progress.

# Beyond Excessive Sensitivity:
While it is crucial to be empathetic and considerate of others, DEI should not be equated with excessive sensitivity that stifles constructive discussions. It is important to create an environment where diverse viewpoints can be expressed, even if they challenge prevailing narratives. Open dialogue and respectful engagement allow for the exploration of different perspectives, leading to a deeper understanding of social issues and the identification of meaningful solutions.

# Maintaining a Steady Pace Towards True Equity:
DEI is a journey that requires persistence and patience. It involves identifying and dismantling systemic barriers that perpetuate inequality while creating opportunities for marginalized groups. By consistently advocating for equal representation, fair policies, and unbiased practices, we can steadily move towards achieving true equity in social status.

A steady pace in DEI efforts allows for thoughtful introspection, continuous learning, and course correction when necessary. It involves acknowledging past mistakes, addressing unconscious biases, and actively seeking out diverse perspectives to inform decision-making processes. It requires embracing discomfort and actively challenging ingrained patterns of discrimination to foster an environment of true inclusion.



DEI is not about force, coercion, or excessive sensitivity, but rather about forging a steady path towards true equity in social status. It calls for respectful dialogue, open-mindedness, and a commitment to continual improvement. By maintaining a steady pace, we can effectively address systemic barriers, foster inclusivity, and create a society where everyone has an equal opportunity to thrive. Let us embrace this journey with determination, empathy, and a shared vision of a more equitable future for all.
