---
title: The "Little Mermaid" is not a promotion of diversity
subtitle: We need real DEI, not the fake one
layout: post
date: 2023-05-31 10:00:00 -0500
author: "Hux"
header-style: text
header-img: https://prd-rteditorial.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/09165636/EWKA_The_Little_Mermaid2.jpg
category: blog
tags:
  - DEI
  - blog
author: "Yuandi"
paginate: true
---


The news that Halle Bailey is starring as Ariel in the upcoming live-action version of The Little Mermaid has sparked a heated debate about diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in the film industry. While some argue that this casting decision promotes DEI, I feel it is necessary to critically analyze the situation and consider whether it truly promotes inclusion or inadvertently undermines it. In this essay, I will show why The Little Mermaid, featuring Halle Bailey, is not a symbol of DEI it purports to be.

Tokenism refers to the inclusion of members of an underrepresented group to make it appear diverse without really addressing systemic inequality. I think that casting Halle Bailey as Ariel can be seen as a superficial attempt at tokenism that, while appearing to be inclusive, doesn't even touch on the deep-seated issues of racism in the film industry.

Hollywood is tired of digging up stories that really belong to blacks and other minorities, giving away a hard share of white history to be "gifted" to other races to play. Such an approach will only make DEI more and more distant. The remake of The Little Mermaid is a missed opportunity to create new stories centered on diverse characters. The film industry should focus on producing original content that authentically represents a variety of cultures, races and identities, rather than reimagining a story that is already familiar and beloved. This approach will allow for the development of unique stories that truly promote DEI.

Changing Ariel's traditional red-haired, fair-skinned appearance undermines the character's iconic presentation. The change was made to conform to contemporary aesthetic standards, rather than to truly embrace a diverse mermaid image. The long-standing misguided approach of mainstream American opinion to measure world culture against mainstream American culture culminated in Disney's forced promotion of American political correctness, and the rest of the world responded forcefully with low ratings and low box office.

Despite the intent to promote diversity, the casting decision has the potential to impact other underrepresented communities. I argue that by casting a Black actress as Ariel, the film inadvertently reinforces racial stereotypes and promotes the notion that characters of color must be "reinvented" in order to become relevant or successful. I believe that true inclusion involves creating new stories and characters to celebrate diversity, rather than changing existing stories.

For all actions that purport to promote diversity, we should critically examine whether they truly promote DEI or inadvertently undermine it. Genuine promotion of DEI should not be done through name changes, character changes, etc., which would play right into the hands of hypocritical racists and allow the memory of a humiliating history to be erased and lost. We should keep the original name and culture intact while adding a diversity of texts that interpret history, while uncovering stories that truly originate from and belong to racial minorities.
