---
layout: post
title: "Embracing Equality"
subtitle: "A Supreme Court Ruling's Call for a Tag-Free World in College Admissions"
author: "Yuandi Tang"
header-img: "img/SC.png"
header-mask: 0.4
tags:
  - blog
  - DEI
---
A recent Supreme Court ruling has put limitations on affirmative action in college admissions, sparking debates on the role of identity-based considerations in the pursuit of a fair and equitable society. It is crucial to recognize that correcting past injustices should not involve compensating certain groups or creating new forms of injustice based on identity tags. Instead, the goal should be to create a world where everyone is judged on their merit and potential, regardless of these tags. Let us explore the significance of this ruling and its implications for embracing a tag-free society.

# Correcting Past Injustices Without Identity Tags
Affirmative action was initially implemented as a means to address historical discrimination and provide opportunities for marginalized groups. However, as society progresses towards equality, it is vital to ensure that the correction of past injustices does not inadvertently perpetuate new forms of discrimination or create a system that labels individuals based on their identity.

The Supreme Court ruling restricting affirmative action in college admissions emphasizes the importance of judging individuals on their merit, achievements, and potential. It seeks to create a level playing field that is free from the biases and assumptions associated with identity tags. This ruling acknowledges that true progress lies in fostering a society where opportunities are available to all, regardless of their background or identity.

# Creating a World Regardless of Identity Tags
The ruling sends a powerful message: the goal of achieving equality is not to perpetuate a society divided by identity tags but to create a world where individuals are judged based on their abilities, achievements, and character. This approach emphasizes the importance of fostering a culture that values diversity and inclusivity without reducing individuals to mere labels.

By shifting the focus away from identity tags, colleges and universities have the opportunity to evaluate applicants holistically. This allows for a more comprehensive assessment of an individual's unique experiences, talents, and potential contributions to the academic community. It also encourages individuals from all backgrounds to strive for excellence, knowing that they will be evaluated based on their merits rather than their identity.

# Moving Towards a Tag-Free Society
The Supreme Court ruling encourages us to envision a society where the significance of identity tags diminishes, and individuals are recognized and valued for their intrinsic worth. This necessitates a shift in our collective mindset, embracing a more nuanced understanding of equality—one that goes beyond compensatory measures and seeks to eradicate all forms of discrimination.

To create a tag-free society, it is essential to promote equal access to quality education, provide resources and support systems to individuals from all backgrounds, and foster an inclusive environment that values diverse perspectives and contributions. By doing so, we create a world where everyone can thrive based on their abilities and character, rather than being confined by predetermined assumptions based on their identity.


The Supreme Court ruling restricting affirmative action in college admissions reminds us of the importance of correcting past injustices without perpetuating new forms of discrimination. It challenges us to envision a tag-free society where individuals are judged on their merit, achievements, and potential. By embracing this vision, we can foster a culture of true equality, where everyone has an opportunity to succeed, irrespective of their background or identity. Let us strive to create a world that recognizes and values the unique qualities of each individual, allowing them to soar beyond the limitations of identity tags.
